README.md, before:

This is a collection of short Python scripts I have added to my
`PATH` variable to run from anywhere.
None are currently available in [pip][pip],
but I will add them if enough people are interested.

To add these to your `PATH`, clone the repo and add the following
to your `bashrc` or `zshrc`, replacing `<python-scripts>`
with the location of the cloned repository.
Furthermore, see my [dotfiles][dotfiles] repo for my
complete Mac and Linux system configurations.

```Bash
# Add additional directories to the path.
pathadd() {
  [ -d "$1" ] && [[ ":$PATH:" != *":$1:"* ]] && PATH="${PATH:+"$PATH:"}$1"
}

pathadd <python-scripts>/python2.7
pathadd <python-scripts>/python3
```

# Python 2.7
## music-organizer.py
This script organizes my music collection for iTunes
and [mpv][mpv] using tag information.
The directory structure is `<artist>/<track>`, where `<artist>` and `<track>`
are lower case strings separated by dashes.
See the [blog post][music-organizer-post] for a more detailed overview.

# Python 3
## EvalExpr.py
A module to evaluate a mathematical expression using Python's AST.
Tests are located in `EvalExprTest.py`.
See the [blog post][eval-post] for a more detailed overview.

```
$ EvalExpr.py '(((4+6)*10)<<2)'
(((4+6)*10)<<2) = 400
```

## link-checker.py
Builds upon linkchecker to hide warnings and to send a concise email
if bad links are found.
See the [blog post][link-checker-post] for a more detailed overview.

![Link checker screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bamos/python-scripts/master/link-checker-screenshot.png?raw=true)

## merge-pdfs-printable.py
The printers in my office print a cover page before every job,
and I don't like printing many cover pages if I want to submit
multiple papers separately so that the papers don't overlap.
This script will merge PDF documents and insert blank pages
so that the printed pages won't overlap documents.
The `modulo` option is helpful to print 2 PDF pages per physical
page side.

The script uses [Ghostscript][gs] to merge the documents
and [pdfinfo][pdfinfo] to extract the number of pages
in the input documents.

```
$ merge-pdfs-printable.py a.pdf b.pdf c.pdf --modulo 4
a.pdf
 + Pages: 6
 + Added 2 blank pages.
b.pdf
 + Pages: 13
 + Added 3 blank pages.
c.pdf
 + Pages: 13
 + Added 3 blank pages.
Merged output is in '/tmp/tmpm2n5g0mh-merge.pdf'.
```

## ScrapeCountries.py
Scraping HTML tables with HTMLParser.
Tests are located in `ScrapeCountriesTest.py`.
See the [blog post][country-post] for a more detailed overview.

```
$ ScrapeCountries.py 'http://www.nationsonline.org/oneworld/countries_of_the_world.htm' countries.tsv
Parsing countries of the world.
Using 5 columns overall and extracting columns (1, 2, 3, 4).
Finished extracting. Data written to 'countries.tsv'

$ head -n 1 countries.tsv
Afghanistan	Afghanistan	Afghanestan	South-Central Asia
```

## phonetic.py
Obtain the NATO phonetic alphabet representation from short phrases.

```
$ phonetic.py github
g - golf
i - india
t - tango
h - hotel
u - uniform
b - bravo
```

[country-post]: http://bamos.github.io/2013/05/03/scraping-tables-python/
[eval-post]: http://bamos.github.io/2013/08/07/python-expression-evaluator/
[link-checker-post]: http://bamos.github.io/2014/02/06/link-checker-crontab/
[music-organizer-post]: http://bamos.github.io/2014/07/05/music-organizer/
[mpv]: http://mpv.io/
[pip]: http://pip.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
[dotfiles]: https://github.com/bamos/dotfiles

[gs]: http://www.ghostscript.com/doc/current/Use.htm
[pdfinfo]: http://linux.die.net/man/1/pdfinfo

Commit message:

Use PyPDF2 for merging and getting the page numbers.

README.md, after:

This is a collection of short Python scripts I have added to my
`PATH` variable to run from anywhere.
None are currently available in [pip][pip],
but I will add them if enough people are interested.

To add these to your `PATH`, clone the repo and add the following
to your `bashrc` or `zshrc`, replacing `<python-scripts>`
with the location of the cloned repository.
Furthermore, see my [dotfiles][dotfiles] repo for my
complete Mac and Linux system configurations.

```Bash
# Add additional directories to the path.
pathadd() {
  [ -d "$1" ] && [[ ":$PATH:" != *":$1:"* ]] && PATH="${PATH:+"$PATH:"}$1"
}

pathadd <python-scripts>/python2.7
pathadd <python-scripts>/python3
```

# Python 2.7
## music-organizer.py
This script organizes my music collection for iTunes
and [mpv][mpv] using tag information.
The directory structure is `<artist>/<track>`, where `<artist>` and `<track>`
are lower case strings separated by dashes.
See the [blog post][music-organizer-post] for a more detailed overview.

# Python 3
## EvalExpr.py
A module to evaluate a mathematical expression using Python's AST.
Tests are located in `EvalExprTest.py`.
See the [blog post][eval-post] for a more detailed overview.

```
$ EvalExpr.py '(((4+6)*10)<<2)'
(((4+6)*10)<<2) = 400
```

## link-checker.py
Builds upon linkchecker to hide warnings and to send a concise email
if bad links are found.
See the [blog post][link-checker-post] for a more detailed overview.

![Link checker screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bamos/python-scripts/master/link-checker-screenshot.png?raw=true)

## merge-pdfs-printable.py
The printers in my office print a cover page before every job,
and I don't like printing many cover pages if I want to submit
multiple papers separately so that the papers don't overlap.
This script will merge PDF documents and insert blank pages
so that the printed pages won't overlap documents.
The `modulo` option is helpful to print 2 PDF pages per physical
page side.

The script uses [PyPDF2][pypdf2] to merge the documents
and to extract the number of pages
in the input documents and [ghostscript][gs]
to create a blank PDF page.

```
$ merge-pdfs-printable.py a.pdf b.pdf c.pdf --modulo 4
a.pdf
 + Pages: 6
 + Added 2 blank pages.
b.pdf
 + Pages: 13
 + Added 3 blank pages.
c.pdf
 + Pages: 13
 + Added 3 blank pages.
Merged output is in '/tmp/tmpm2n5g0mh-merge.pdf'.
```

## ScrapeCountries.py
Scraping HTML tables with HTMLParser.
Tests are located in `ScrapeCountriesTest.py`.
See the [blog post][country-post] for a more detailed overview.

```
$ ScrapeCountries.py 'http://www.nationsonline.org/oneworld/countries_of_the_world.htm' countries.tsv
Parsing countries of the world.
Using 5 columns overall and extracting columns (1, 2, 3, 4).
Finished extracting. Data written to 'countries.tsv'

$ head -n 1 countries.tsv
Afghanistan	Afghanistan	Afghanestan	South-Central Asia
```

## phonetic.py
Obtain the NATO phonetic alphabet representation from short phrases.

```
$ phonetic.py github
g - golf
i - india
t - tango
h - hotel
u - uniform
b - bravo
```

[country-post]: http://bamos.github.io/2013/05/03/scraping-tables-python/
[eval-post]: http://bamos.github.io/2013/08/07/python-expression-evaluator/
[link-checker-post]: http://bamos.github.io/2014/02/06/link-checker-crontab/
[music-organizer-post]: http://bamos.github.io/2014/07/05/music-organizer/
[mpv]: http://mpv.io/
[pip]: http://pip.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
[dotfiles]: https://github.com/bamos/dotfiles

[gs]: http://www.ghostscript.com/doc/current/Use.htm
[pypdf2]: https://github.com/mstamy2/PyPDF2
